---
title: ERNIE(Tsing Hua University)
categories: nlp
tags: 
    - nlp
    - transformer
    - bert
    - knowledge graph
    - papers
author: Zhou Tong
sidebar:
  nav: Paper-notes
  avatar: true
article_header:
  type: overlay
  theme: dark
  background_color: '#203028'
  background_image:
    gradient: 'linear-gradient(135deg, rgba(34, 139, 87 , .4), rgba(139, 34, 139, .4))'
    src: /pictures/bg1.jpg
---

ERNIE: Enhanced Language Representation with Informative Entities

<!--more-->

See [original paper](http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.07129) for more details.

## Introduction

**Problem** The existing pre-trained models rarely consider incorporating knowledge graphs, which can provide rich structured knowledge facts for better language understanding.
We argue that informative entities in KGs can enhance language representation with external knowledge.
{:.warning}

**Solution** We utilize both large-scale textual corpora and KGs to train an enhanced language representation model (ERNIE).
{:.success}

**Results** Hence, considering rich knowledge information can lead to better language understanding and accordingly benefits various knowledge-driven applications, e.g. entity typing and relation classification.
{:.error}

There are two main challenges for incorporating external knowledge into language representation models:
1. Structured Knowledge Encoding: regarding to the given text, how to effectively extract and encode its related informative facts in KGs for language representation models is an important problem.
2. Heterogeneous Information Fusion: the pre-training procedure for language representation is quite different from the knowledge representation procedure, leading to two individual vector spaces. How to design a special pre-training objective to fuse lexical, synatactic, and knowledge information is another challenge.

**E**nhanced Language **R**eprestatio**N** with **I**nformative **E**nities (ERNIE)

1. Recogize named entities in text and then align these mentions to their corresponding entities in knowledge graphs. Encode the graph structure of KGs with knowledge embedding algorithms like [TransE](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2013/file/1cecc7a77928ca8133fa24680a88d2f9-Paper.pdf). Take the informative entity embeddings as input for ERNIE. Based on the alignments between text and KGs, ERNIE integrates entity representations in the knowledge module into the underlying layers of the semantic module.
2. Adopt MLM and NSP as the pre-training objectives for ERNIE. Design a new pre-training objective to a better fusion of textual and knowledge features by randomly masking some of the named entity alignments in the input text and asking the model to select appropriate entities from KGs to complete the alignments.

<!-- ## Related Works

[Sun et al., 2019](http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.07129) propose the knowledge masking strategy for MLM to enhance language representation by knowledge. -->

## Methodology

