---
title: T5
categories: nlp
tags: 
    - nlp
    - transformer
    - papers
author: Zhou Tong
sidebar:
  nav: Paper-notes
  avatar: true
article_header:
  type: overlay
  theme: dark
  background_color: '#203028'
  background_image:
    gradient: 'linear-gradient(135deg, rgba(34, 139, 87 , .4), rgba(139, 34, 139, .4))'
    src: /pictures/bg1.jpg
---

Exploring the Limits of Transfer Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text Transformer

<!--more-->

## Introduction

Problem: The rapid rate of progress and diversity of techniques in this burgeoning field can make it difficult to compare different algorithms, tease apart the effects of new contributions, and understand the space of existing methods for transfer learning. 
{:.warning}

Solution: Motivated by a need for more rigorous understanding, we leverage a unified approach to transfer learning that allows us to systematically study different approaches and push the current limits of the field.
{:.success}

The basic idea underlying our work is to treat every text processing problem as a “text-to-text” problem, i.e. taking text as input and producing new text as output.
This approach is inspired by previous unifying frameworks for NLP tasks, including casting all text problems as question answering ([McCann et al., 2018](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.08730)), language modeling ([Radford et al., 2019](https://d4mucfpksywv.cloudfront.net/better-language-models/language_models_are_unsupervised_multitask_learners.pdf)), or span extraction [Keskar et al. (2019b)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09286) tasks.

In order to perform experiments at this scale, we introduce the “Colossal Clean Crawled Corpus” (C4), a data set consisting of hundreds of gigabytes of clean English text scraped from the web.

## Setup

### Model

T5: “**T**ext-**t**o-**T**ext **T**ransfer **T**ransformer”

1. First, an input sequence of tokens is mapped to a sequence of embeddings, which is then passed into the encoder. 
2. The encoder consists of a stack of “blocks”, each of which comprises two subcomponents: a self-attention layer followed by a small feed-forward network. 
3. Layer normalization (Ba et al., 2016) is applied to the input of each subcomponent. We use a simplified version of layer normalization where the activations are only rescaled and no additive bias is applied.
4. After layer normalization, a residual skip connection (He et al., 2016) adds each subcomponent’s input to its output. Dropout (Srivastava et al., 2014) is applied within the feed-forward network, on the skip connection, on the attention weights, and at the input and output of the entire stack.
5. The decoder is similar in structure to the encoder except that it includes a standard attention mechanism after each self-attention layer that attends to the output of the encoder. The self-attention mechanism in the decoder also uses a form of autoregressive or causal self-attention, which only allows the model to attend to past outputs. 
6. The output of the final decoder block is fed into a dense layer with a softmax output, whose weights are shared with the input embedding matrix. All attention mechanisms in the Transformer are split up into independent “heads” whose outputs are concatenated before being further processed.
:thinking:

### C4 Dataset

Clean Common Crawl by the following heuristics(启发式算法):
 - Retain lines that ends in a terminal punctuation mark (i.e. a period, exclamation mark, question mark, or end quotation mark).
 - Discard any page with fewer than 5 sentences and only retain lines that contain at least 3 words.
 - Remove any page that contains any dirty, naughty, obscene, or otherwise bad words.
 - Remove any line with the word Javascript.
 - Remove any page where the placeholder phrase "lorem ipsum" appeared.
 - Remove any page that contains curly bracket "{" to avoid programming languages.
 - Discard all but one of any three-sentence span occurring more than once in the data set.
 - Use langdetect to filter out any page that is not classified as English with a probability of at least 0.99.

### Downstream Tasks

 - GLUE and SuperGLUE text classification meta-benchmarks;
 - CNN/Daily Mail abstractive summarization;
 - SQuAD question answering;
 - WMT English to German, French, and Romanian translation.

For simplicity, when fine-tuning we treat all of the tasks in the GLUE benchmark (and similarly for SuperGLUE) as a single task by concatenating all of the constituent(组成的) data sets. As suggested by Kocijan et al. (2019) we also include the Definite Pronoun Resolution (DPR) data set (Rahman and Ng, 2012) in the combined SuperGLUE task.

### Input and Output Format

We cast all of the tasks into a "text-to-text" format--that is, a task where the model is fed some text for context or conditioning and is then asked to produce some output text. This framework provides a consistent training objective both for pre-training and fine-tuning. The model is trained with a maximum likelihood objective regardless of the task. To specify which task the model should perform, we add a task-specific prefix to the original input sequence before fedding it to the model.

Note that the choice of text prefix used for a given task is essentially a hyperparameter. (We found that changing the exact wording of the prefix had limited impact.)

> We mainly consider models that process an input with an encoder before generating an output with a separate decoder.
>
> We focus on transfer learning rather than zero-shot learning.

Finally, Keskar et al. (2019b) unify many NLP tasks as “span extraction”, where text corresponding to possible output choices are appended to the input and the model is trained to extract the input span corresponding to the correct choice. In contrast, our framework also allows for generative tasks like machine translation and abstractive summarization where it is not possible to enumerate all possible output choices.

Exception: STS-B, which is a regressino task where the goal is to predict a similarity score between 1 and 5.
We found that most of these scores were annotated in increments of 0.2, so we simply rounded any score to the nearest increment of 0.2 and converted the result to a literal string representation of the number (e.g. the floating-point value 2.57 would be mapped to the string “2.6”).
At test time, if the model outputs a string corresponding to a number between 1 and 5, we convert it to a floating-point value; otherwise, we treat the model’s prediction as incorrect.

## Experiments

We systematically study the influence of new pre-training objectives, model architectures, unlabeled data sets, and more by taking a reasonable baseline and altering one aspect of the setup at a time. It would be prohibitively expensive to perform a combinatorial exploration of all the factors.

### Baseline

We pre-train a standard Transformer using a simple denoising objective and then separately fine-tune on each of our downstream tasks.

#### Model

Using a standard encoder-decoder structure achieved good results on both generative and classification tasks.

Baseline model is designed so that the encoder and decoder are each similar in size and configuration to a bert-base stack. Specifically, both the encoder and decoder consist of 12 blocks. The FFN in each block consist of a dense layer with an output dimensionality of 3072 followed by a ReLU nonlinearity and another dense layer. The "key" and "value" matrices of all attention mechanisms have an inner dimensionality of 64 and all attention mechanisms have 12 heads. All other sub-layers and embeddings have a dimensionality of 768. In total, this results in a model with about 220M parameters. For regularization, we use a dropout probability of 0.1 everywhere dropout is applied in the model.

#### Training

All tasks are formulated as text-to-text tasks. This allows us to always train using standard maximum likelihood, i.e. using teacher forcing and a cross-entropy loss. For optimization, we use AdaFactor. At test time, we use greedy decoding (i.e. choosing the highest-probability logit at every timestep).

- pre-train steps: 2^19 = 524,288
- maximum sequence length: 512
- batch size: 128
- total tokens: 34B (BERT: 137B tokens; RoBERTa: 2.2T tokens)

Using only 34B tokens results in a reasonable computational budget while still providing a sufficient amount of pre-training for acceptable performance. 34B tokens only covers a fraction of the entire C4 data set, so we never repeat any data during pre-training.

We use an "inverse square root" learning rate schedule: $$ 1/\sqrt{max(n,k)}  $$
where n is the current training iteration and k is the number of warm-up steps (set to 10^4 in all of our experiments). This sets a constant learning rate of 0.01 for the warm-up steps, then exponentially decays the learning rate until pre-training is over. We also experimented with using a triangular learning rate, which produced slightly better results but requires knowing the total number of training steps ahead of time. We opt more generic inverse square roote schedule.

- fine-tuning steps: 2^18 = 262,144
- maximum sequence length: 512
- batch size: 128
- learning rate: 0.001 constant

For models fine-tuned on multiple tasks, we choose the best checkpoint for each task independently.

For all of the experiments except those in Section 3.7, we report results in the validation set to avoid performing model selection on the test set.

#### Vocabulary

We use SentencePiece to encode text as WordPiece tokens. For all experiments, we use a vocabulary of 32,000 wordpieces.
Then plus German, French, and Romanian wordpieces.

#### Unsupervised Objective

Preliminary work that applied the transfer learning paradigm of pre-training and fine-tuning all of the model’s parameters to NLP problems used a causal language modeling objective for pre-training. However, it has recently been shown that "denoising" objectives (MLM) produce better performance and as a result they have quickly become standard.

We design an objective that randomly samples and then drops out 15% of tokens in the input sequence. All consecutive spans of dropped-out tokens are replaced by a single sentinel token.

Each sentinel token is assigned a token ID that is unique to the sequence. The sentinel IDs are special tokens which are added to our vocabulary and do not correspond to any wordpiece.



