---
title: Large Language Models are Human-Level Prompt Engineers
tags: [nlp, prompt, papers]
style: fill
color: warning
description: Automatic Prompt Engineer (APE) for automatic instruction generation and selection.
---

# Large Language Models are Human-Level Prompt Engineers

See [original paper](http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.01910) for more details.

## Introduction

Automatic Prompt Engineer (APE): for automatic instruction generation and selection.

We treat instruction as "program", optimized by searching over a pool of instruction candidates proposed by an LLM in order to maximize a chosen score function.

Outperform human annotated prompts on 19/24 tasks.

Problem: Models do not seem to understand the prompts in the same way a human would. Plain language prompts do not always produce the desired results. Thus, human users must experiment with a wide range of prompts to elicit desired behaviors.

LLM -> black-box computers that execute programs specified by natural language instructions.

The quality of instruction can only be measured when executing these instructions on a downstream task.

## Natural Language Program Synthesis using LLMs

### Initial Proposal Distributions

**Forward Mode Generation**

**Reverse Mode Generation**

**Customized Prompts**

### Score Functions

**Execution accuracy** $$f (\rho,Q,A) = \nvDash [M([\rho ; Q]) = A]$$

**Log probability** $$ log P(A \mid [ρ;Q])$$

**Efficient score estimation** Evaluate all candidates with a small subset of the training dataset. For the candidates with a score greater than a certain threshold, we sample and evaluate a new non-overlapping subset of the training dataset to update the moving average of the score.

### Iterative Proposal Distributions

If the method fails to produce a good proposal set, either because it lacks of diversity or does not contain any candidates with a suitably high score. -> Resampling

**Iterative Monte Carlo Search** Generate new instructions that are more likely to be successful by exploring the search space locally around the current best candidates.

Although this approach improves the overall quality of the proposal set, the highest scoring instruction tends to remain the same with more stages. **Not used unless otherwise stated.**

## Large Language Models are Human-Level Prompt Engineers

- zero-shot performance
- few-shot in-context learning performance
- truthfulness

### Instruction Induction

**Zero-shot Learning** APE outperforms 19 of 24 tasks.

**Zero-shot Qualitative Analysis** In Passivization, Membership, and Second Letter. The best instructions selected by APE for each task are semantically correct and recover accuracy relative to humans. In contrast, the worst instructions are all semantically incorrect and perform poorly. **The demonstrations used to generate these instructions have no semantic difference.**

**Few-shot In-context Learning** Insert the instruction before the in-context demonstrations.

- Instruction Only
- In-context Only
- Instruction + In-context

APE outperforms 21 of 24 tasks.

Adding in-contextexamples for Rhymes, Large Animal, and Second Letters hurts model performance.

**Few-shot Qualitative Analysis** 
Change to few-shot metric to score the instructions.

### TruthfulQA

To see how APE-generated instructions can steer an LLM to generate answers with different styles, and study the trade-off between truthfulness and informativeness.

Evaluation metric: truthfulness (%True), informativeness (%Info), and a combination of both (%True+%Info).

Automated metrics align with human prediction over 90% of the time.

In our experiments, we use a fine-tuned GPT-judge and GPT-info to evaluate the scores.

**Prompt Engineering in TruthfulQA** Aim to find a single best instruction prompt that works well across all 38 categories of questions.

**Truthfulness vs. Informativeness Trade-off** While APE achieves over 40% accuracy in providing both true and informative answers (vs. 30% by human prompt), the instructions discovered tend to target the two ends of this %true-%info Pareto frontier.

## Quantitive Analysis

We observe the larger and more powerful language models are more cost-effective for generating the best prompt despite a higher per-token cost.

### LLMs for Proposal Distribution

Larger models tend to produce better proposal distributions than smaller ones, as do the models that were fine-tuned to follow human instructions. On the simple task, all instructions generated by the best model, InstructGPT (175B), have reasonable test accuracy. In contrast, half of the instructions are off-topic and perform poorly on the more challenging task.

Codex and OPT nearly match InstructGPT performance despite their instruction proposal models being different from the InstructGPT scoring model.

### LLMs for Selection

Figure shows a monotonically increasing trend with a diminishing return, as human-level performance is achieved with 64 instruction samples.

We visualize the Spearman correlation between the test accuracy and two metrics. Figure shows that the execution accuracy aligns better with the test performance across the tasks. Thus, we choose it as our default metric unless otherwise stated.

It suggests that the alignment between the scoring model and execution model is crucial, and the instructions generated by InstructGPT work best for the InstructGPT itself but do not transfer well to a different model like GPT-3. In contrast, GPT-3-generated instructions can steer GPT-3 exceptionally well, outperforming the InstructGPT instructions and human instructions by a large margin.

### Iterative Monte Carlo Search

The survival plot shows that the curves increase as the round goes up, which suggests that iterative search does result in a higher-quality proposal set. However, we observe diminishing returns to further selection rounds as the quality seems to stabilize after three rounds.

The iterative search marginally improves performance on tasks where APE underperforms humans but achieves similar performance on the other tasks. This is consistent with our hypothesis that iterative search would be most useful on tasks where generating a good initial instruction set is challenging.

## Conclusion

LLMs can be seen as general-purpose computers that execute programs specified by natural language prompts. We automate the prompt engineering process by formulating it as a black-box optimization problem, which we propose to solve using efficient search algorithms guided by LLMs. Our method achieves human-level performance on various tasks with minimum human inputs. As recent LLMs demonstrate an impressive ability to follow human instruction, we expect many future models, including those for formal program synthesis, to have a natural language interface. This work builds the foundation to control and steer generative AIs.
