---
title: T5
categories: nlp
tags: 
    - nlp
    - transformer
    - papers
author: Zhou Tong
sidebar:
  nav: Paper-notes
  avatar: true
article_header:
  type: overlay
  theme: dark
  background_color: '#203028'
  background_image:
    gradient: 'linear-gradient(135deg, rgba(34, 139, 87 , .4), rgba(139, 34, 139, .4))'
    src: /pictures/bg1.jpg
---

KEPLER: A Unified Model for Knowledge Embedding and Pre-trained Language Representation

<!--more-->

## Abstract

In KEPLER, we encode textual entity descriptions with a pre-trained language model as their embeddings, and then jointly optimize the knowledge embedding and language modeling objectives.

Experimental results show that KEPLER achieves state-of-the-art performances on various NLP tasks, and also works remarkably well as an inductive KE model on KG lin prediction. Furthermore, for pretraining and evaluating KEPLER, we construct Wikidata5M, a large-scale KG dataset with aligned entity descriptions, and benchmark state-of-the-art KE methods on it.

The source code can be obtained from https://github.com/THU-KEG/KEPLER.

## Introduction

Problem: Existing PLMs learn useful inguistic knowledge from unlabeled text, but they generally cannot well capture the world facts, which are typically sparse and have complex forms in text.

Solution: Knowledge graphs contain extensive structural facts, and knowledge embedding methods can effectively embed them into continuous entity and relation embeddings.

We use entity descriptions to bridge the gap between KE and PLM, and align the semantic space of text to the symbol space of KGs. We encode the texts into a unified semantic space with the same PLM as the encoder, and jointly optimize the KE and the MLM objectives.
- KE: we encode the entity descriptions as entity embeddings and then train them in the same way as conventional KE methods.
- MLM: we follow the approach of existing PLMs.

KEPLER
1. is able to integrate factual knowledge into language representation with the supervision from KG by the KE objective.
2. inherits the strong ability of language understanding from PLMs by the MLM objective.
3. 's ability of extracting knowledge from text is enhanced by the KE objective since it reqquires the model to encode the entities from their corresponding descriptions.
